Step 1: Measure and Set Goals
Answer the following questions:
Using outside research, indicate the potential security risks of allowing employees to access work information on their personal devices. Identify at least three potential attacks that can be carried out.
    Rooted or Jailbroken devices - These devices could have a virus or malware on them. 
    Malfomed content - Users can exploit known vulnerabilites in applications running on the employees BYOD device and gain access to corporate network and/or data.
    Lost or stolen devices - If the devices done have a bio-metric or key password setup, whomever that finds the device can access company data and network
    OS related vulnerabilities - Unpatched OS vulnerabilities can provide hackers a way into a employees BYOD device and then access to the companies network and data
    Malicious applications - Employees can unknowingly install malicious applications that snoops on their traffic and provide access to the hacker of company resources
        (Source - https://resources.infosecinstitute.com/topic/ethical-hacking-byod-vulnerabilities/?utm_source=feedburner&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=Feed%3A%20infosecResources%20%28InfoSec%20Resources%29 )

Based on the above scenario, what is the preferred employee behavior? For the employee to use only company provided devices.

What methods would you use to measure how often employees are currently not behaving according to the preferred behavior?
- Parse access logs for email server, company applicaitons, and VPN logs to get a total of number of unique devices, versions of OS being used to access internal resources

What is the goal that you would like the organization to reach regarding this behavior? 
- Have 80% of the employees in compliance with the policy.

For example, to have less than 5% of employees downloading suspicious email attachments.


Step 2: Involve the Right People
Now that you have a goal in mind, who needs to be involved?
 - HR - Make sure policy meets labor laws and we have actionable process for if a employee becomes problematic and can't/doesn't follow the policy.
 - IT - logistics of implementing a solution and/or tracking metrics on effectiveness
 - finance - approve and allocate budget for the solution and training
 - department heads - they will provide input on if a solution will work for thier team and what problems/benefits it will have to their team(s) in doing their daily work
 - security team - they will provide 

Indicate at least five employees or departments that need to be involved. For each person or department, indicate in 2-3 sentences what their role and responsibilities will be.


Step 3: Training Plan
Training is part of any security culture framework plan. How will you train your employees on this security concern? In one page, indicate the following:


How frequently will you run training? What format will it take? (i.e. in-person, online, a combination of both)
- Training will be done in-person with an online option for remote workers. Training will occur on a quarterly basis along with being part of the new hire security training given to new employees. 


What topics will you cover in your training and why? (This should be the bulk of the deliverable.)
    Describe the minimum security controls for devices
        Enabling password lock or biometric lock on the devices 
        Data encryption enabled on the devices
        Screen lockout after a period of inactivity

    Keeping operating systems up to date and patched - This will teach employees about how to keep their devices updated and using the latest OS and 

    Acceptable use of BYOD devices on the company network and applications - This will let the employees know what applications, networks services and applications they are allowed to run while connected to the company network.
    
    Have attendees to the training sign documentation that they have recieved training on the policies regarding using BYOD on the company network.

After you’ve run your training, how will you measure its effectiveness?
- Parse VPN access logs and aggregate data by user and device to see what percentage of compliance employees are with the policies


This portion will require additional outside research on the topic so that you can lay out a clear and thorough training agenda.

Bonus: Other Solutions
Training alone often isn't the entire solution to a security concern.


Indicate at least two other potential solutions. For each one, indicate the following:
- Mobile Device Management (MDM) solution to manage and monitory BYOD devices
- Approval process for employees to use BYOD devices

What type of control is it? Administrative, technical, or physical?
- MDM would be a technical control
- Approval process woudl be a administrative control


What goal does this control have? Is it preventive, deterrent, detective, corrective, or compensating?
- MDM would be a detective control since it will monitor usage of company resources BYOD devices are accessing
- 


What is one advantage of each solution?
- 

What is one disadvantage of each solution?
- MDM would have a cost factor for purchasing a solution and also for the role out of the solution 
- Approval process would add extra work and documentation to managers and IT staff.